even my ideas of how to change hospital
because personally i have never actually
i was in hospital maybe a couple of days
when i was given birth that's it
and so it was very unpleasant experience
i don't want to come back and i'm afraid
of hospitals so i'm not in the position
of
coming up with the idea so far
how to
how to like you know
change it for bad
but
yeah but it's yeah i try to avoid the
places myself and very memorable
actually yeah it occurred to me once
that that's what horror movies are
actually about you know like the action
movies are about the moment of violence
and horror movies are about like all the
stuff that you know takes place in the
hospitals afterwards or slow painful
miserable
hopeless terrifying
aspects of the whole thing
yeah yeah i quite like hospitals i don't
know i don't wanna someone else speak
but i quite like i quite like i've never
i've seen a couple of people die in the
last five years in hospitals um
but um
you know
what it was quite dignified deaths you
know and there were people around them
and there's lots of people
love people around them and
you know it was it was you know death is
death but
it was it wasn't
it was it was wasn't that bad you know
um
and i quite like i quite like them in
that way i've stayed in the hospital a
couple of times and once a year when my
life was was quite
you know i had encephalitis i had a
really bad brain kind of virus me and
stayed in for a couple of weeks and and
it was a big relief for me actually
because i was living quite
hand to mouth at the time
um so to have somewhere where i could
heal
and the only the only the only thing
going on was just healing
was really nice
so i quite like them to be honest i
quite like you know sitting in the cafe
or just going into the crap wh smiths
that they have and looking at the
magazines
i really guess that um
within the the system that we are made
to live in everything kind of fits in
uh
because it's it's a huge mess
incarceration
all around us i don't want to sound like
foucault
but you know it's a huge mass
incarceration of a life that we're
living
we are so alienated to the nature and
everything
and therefore for us to keep going
and i guess that's the case in the uk
with the nhs and all that
um the health system is becoming much
worse and worse and it is becoming only
maybe better for those who are
you know
uh who are more worth it because of
their money or status or
or their use
you know
um
and all others are becoming more and
more indisposable
and um
so so therefore
of course the whole i mean we need to
take not hospitals on their own
but like hospitals in terms of
the whole relationship of the system
with one another
you know and i guess there are a lot of
good people in of course all these
institutions
you know who are trying to make people's
lives better and etc but i guess this is
not what we're talking about here you
know i sometimes feel like when i was
translating sociology or freedom
by abdullah
i really felt like
one of those you know
like the cattle farms the pig farms or
the chicken farms
you know
that we were also in one of those
you know those who had
better status much more money
maybe had a better life but at the end
our lives are so
constricted restricted you know
and i guess together with that our
imaginations are also
so much more limited you know
like
in days like this you know covered 19
there's a lot of things going on all
around the world
there's a lot of exposure
of what this state mechanism
is
you know but together with it
not only just exposing it but like how
do we imagine
you know a different way of living
you know uh where do we begin with how
do we
actually begin to
undo
you know the way
that
after thousands of years of patriarchal
and exploitative regimes
um
you know how where do we begin to undo
it so that we can imagine another way of
living living another way of healthcare
you know like if we didn't all work like
this would we need hospitals like that
you know if we didn't have
such huge
metropolitan cities
would we need hospitals like that you
know
i don't know the questions can go on and
on and on i guess
so i you know the
the whole thing
our lives
you know has been
taken out of context
and put into a context where
we are just
you know
working to make profit
instead of
enjoying it somehow you know i mean
usually the city for us
is especially when we were young you
know was made out to be the fun place
the place where
everything is going on you know
and of course you know after a certain
number of years you realize i mean okay
there are some good stuff that are going
on
but it's also the very center of
exploitation
like to the fool you know um so i guess
you know what is fun what is joy what is
enchantment i think there's a lot of
room especially these days
for rethinking all this you know
um rethinking of the cities and you
you know like if you need to
do we take you know like does new york
have to be the way it is does london
have to be the way it is
you know does i mean cologne at the
moment i mean come and see cologne at
the moment you think what's going on
here you know but does it have to be the
way it is you know
or is it like this
because of certain interests and profits
and and etc so
i
i think you know instead of
making
this the way that we are living more
bearable
more tolerable because you know this is
what they are telling us you know if we
have more money we can find it more
tolerable
you know
um
but we are seeing with the destruction
of our ecology that this is also
not going to be so much possible anymore
for anybody you know i sometimes think
maybe the
the search for
immortality
starting from gilgamesh is really coming
to its end you know this one percent
that is ruling over us
you know their search for immortality
is happening through
um you know
just exploiting making more money ruling
more more deeper
more profoundly is really coming to an
end because
i i really think it's been exposed so
much more i don't know maybe it's me i
feel i know more a lot more than i used
to
and i can see a lot of different groups
all around the world
struggling different movements women you
know kurds black people
asian people you know whatever everyone
the workers
etc
um
so
you know i i really feel that this is
really the moment to begin to
say okay how am i not going to be a
complicit to this
you know like do i really need to
become a worker or or you know or work
whatever wherever it is you know it
doesn't have to be in a factory but in
any way it upholds this
this civilization
you know the way the way that we do and
and the next question is of course how
do we then sustain ourselves you know
how do we do all this because
if we do not enter
this kind of discussion
i i really think that our
imaginations
cannot bump into
then
uh the realization of our imagination
and
continuously
you know become nearer to
to freedom
um and and the joy and the intent
enchantment that we should get from life
you know so
so you know i i
i think of that for myself and of course
the practice
uh in rojava and elsewhere uh around
kurdistan is really
you know um
orientated towards this
like how do we
decouple ourselves
from
uh
this
way of life of this patriarchal
civilization
and you know we need to do this at all
levels
you know at a personal level to
regional levels um etc so how do we
actually do that and it's a huge
you know horizon when you think of that
it means the health of course sector it
means
arts it means education
it means self-defense you know we are
seeing that of course the moment
that you say okay i want to live
differently
then
the
coercion mechanisms of the state come
into play
you know
uh how do we then find ways of
you know defending ourselves so that
um how do we open space and how do we
actually do that you know i i really
love what argelon was saying for europe
uh he was saying that in in the in in
the west there's a partial piece
between the rulers
and the workers woman you know all the
oppressed
because of that
uh
incredible
uh struggle that was given here
so that the partial peace means that
there were
some rights that were gained you know
etc but um but in the last you know 20
to 30 years we're seeing that this
partial piece is also collapsing
uh in many different ways so so it is
possible uh in in many different ways uh
to do all this um
therefore you know i i am thinking of
health in that sense you know like in
java there are many different approaches
to health you you need to
be take precautionary health for example
like you know i mean
if i go personal i have a back problem
because i sit a lot and i guess this is
not good for humans right um
so therefore you know
um there's there is room for all
different approaches to health it's
beginning with the way that we are
living
and why we're living the way we're
living so um
you know i shortly i i want to talk
about that and and i think it's a moment
where we cannot just be
satisfied with a few reforms here and
there
but really then take this
this this moment which is the
accumulation of a hundred years of
struggles all around the world
um
to steer
a different civilization
our civilization what urjalan calls
democratic civilization
okay so yeah thank you
i actually wanted to ask george family i
don't know anything about how hospital
and healthcare exist in rojava now maybe
if you can
uh
yeah it will be interesting too
i i think david would know a little as
well because he was there
yeah yeah well i mean at first there was
a medical blockade so it was a lot of
things had to be reinvented just because
a lot of the tech machines and hospitals
like
with the spare parts they couldn't get
spare apart so things broke down so like
things like um
dialysis patients say i just had to get
them out of there but as a result um you
know they had to reconceive a lot of
things and when i was there they were
just starting to think about how to
reorganize cities so there was this guy
we kind of referred to as the hippie
doctor because he looked like this very
serious sort of military officer sort of
guy but when he was smarter talking uh
he was saying how well you know we're
really thinking of prevention
preventative health as being the focus
because i i'm convinced that um you know
most heart disease and probably a lot of
cancer really ultimately goes back to
stress you know um and a lot of that has
to do with urban environments inherently
stressful
you know it's like
i'm not around a tree at all for like
three or four hours i start to get
really stressed and you know we need to
rebuild the cities as a maybe 40 to 60
green space and i tell you heart disease
like a lot of different you know things
are just gonna
go down immediately um which of course
they have an opportunity to do a lot of
rebuilding so then a lot of the um
and
i know that in places like kumbani you
know since most of the city was
destroyed anyway and had to be rebuilt
they tried to actually enact some of
this like um redesign the city around
the idea of creating a more healthy and
less stressful environment
yes yeah
i think like now
is to talk about socialism and
capitalism but personally uh live from
perestroika in 90s russia i'm very
suspicious about all uh alternatives
and trees because during the 90s when
the
basically normal social services were
mostly dismantling and most of the
population become very poor
people like started to use extra sands
drinking their urine holding the trees
because they can't do anything else you
know so i was like no no wait you don't
have like machines so what can you do
you just you just say okay i am
unstressed myself
i mean i i think you know like that we
we know a lot now
from that experience as well from the
soviet experience you know um therefore
you know what what we're trying to say
is that
it's all about just traditional medicine
you know i i think the modern medicine
has also uh its place
but what we are saying is that you know
most of the illnesses
that are cutting is due to the way that
we are oppressed and exploited and we
are made to live you know so so i guess
you know this is why i was saying that
um
there are different
different there's room for all these
medicines that we're talking about you
know i mean
you know
working in concrete blocks
you know from early morning to the
evening and then being in surroundings
or even you know our apartments
are so perfect i mean i began with
saying you know i feel like in an animal
farm you know
i mean to minimize
this
socialization
we and all enter you know from one
single door into our homes and then we
are isolated you know in there
and it comes to the point to such a
point that we find comfort in this now
it's amazing
you know we find a strange comfort
in being alienated now
because i see people sometimes being
even scared of pigeons
you know
on the street no really i mean uh it's
shocking but this is the case you know
so so what what i'm saying is that
i think health and health care
is so intertwined with
with the general enchantment of the way
that we are living
being fulfilled with what we're doing in
life
you know the meaning of life
you know so and and for all this to
happen i guess
that we need to continuously
struggle because as in the soviet
example
you know there is always a way
where this domination can of course take
over
you know
so um therefore um
i i think a mechanism
where there's a continuous
um
struggle of undoing what we have learned
is
is very very important
yeah yeah
oh okay yeah
it occurs to me that i don't know the
composition i'm looking at the group of
who actually knows
uh how much people know of the
background the concept of visual
assembly and how much of it needs to be
explained but uh just
seems wise to just give a brief intro to
the idea and maybe uh nico could talk a
little bit about the background and then
we go inside and then yeah
um
yeah because i think obviously
the broader issues
so well i don't have to do that um
i could i could bounce off yours i have
some thoughts but i'll talk about this
later um
yeah just about the visual assembly
concept itself um
it it is
as much as i suspect though
it's an idea which is meant to combine
our artistic tools and
uh
directly democratic tools and at the
same time to combine virtual and
physical so um
that's what's really innovative about it
so we have people who are spending lots
and lots of time online and endless zoom
chats and conversations and they always
kind of spin around
and um and don't seem to get anywhere
often at least a lot of us have the
experience these are endless talking
shops but people but part of the reason
why it's hard to you know have something
come out of it is simply because there's
nothing physically there um to focus on
you know when you're doing consensus a
process there's always an object you're
you're there there's an action
a problem you're trying to solve and um
one thing that we thought would be very
interesting if we're trying to unleash
the imagination and the assumption is
you know there has been a kind of as
saying this war on the imagination i've
said it as well um this is kind of the
imagination strikes back we've lost the
ability to think in utopian terms so
we're trying to rebuild them well one
idea was to to have a
you know something actually concrete
to to facilitate the imaginative process
um where the artist wouldn't actually be
imposing their vision at all so the idea
is that we have a series of stencils
which are collectively created and then
the artists are simply sitting there in
a physical space whereas a group of
people in virtual space collectively
imagine
what an alternative institution a city
health system whatever it might be would
be like and then we use these these
artistic tools sort of arrange things in
space on on a physical place like in a
public square if we can get away with
that and um in a garage if we have to um
so so so the image of this place which
is being transformed will be you know
put online and people perhaps all over
the world can watch as it you know
they're collectively creating something
in real space in real time
yeah and of course uh so this maybe we
should share now the screen and so on
[Music]
post disabled attendee screen sharing no
um
well
here i'll i know maybe i can put it into
the chat
no i think we should uh ask a time no
because i want you to be on the screen
yeah
can you either give us back the
can you give us back uh the question
right uh please
no it's not even there hello
[Music]
since our today
alexander
is uh
come up with
stencils and uh figure out facilitation
and now we will
go through the list of other ideas with
uh ileana and david
other people thought that i wanted to to
show what uh
yeah what level an example of what it
could be like so this map is a map of
cinematic hospital that we chose as uh
the place in london that we can
reimagine and things around us from our
previous visual assembly of city of care
that we did
with david and extension rebellion and
art strike guys
um so
the idea is like this space
space
somebody might want to mute
go
instead of a grid which might prejudice
people's imagination
i think i got the idea of simply having
these circles to substitute
yeah and so the circles could be what
javin was talking and maybe other people
will be talking about uh what could be a
preventive care which is for example in
germany where i lived for a while is a
big deal and
you can get
insurance pay for so many things if you
like stop smoking they will help you and
so on and so forth uh in the u.s it's
virtually doesn't exist in soviet union
which also was widespread and you can go
to like resorts that could be paid if
you have
some conditions and so on uh so i was
thinking that um
if we have the list of uh stencils
uh
we can design them and catch them
of put them online uh for download for
uh for anybody who wants and anybody
also can
uh add their own version of the stencils
and then we can plant kind of separately
and together these two zones one is the
hospital itself in which you have many
rooms many uh i don't know territories
you can put um
uh you can write down what could it be
here
you can put in instructions and then the
circles could be some other place of
care
that uh
yeah that is the
cost to
to invent
and uh as uh like maybe then thai could
describe our plan about how to implement
it so we were thinking to have two teams
oh yes yeah this is what we came up with
in the last meeting yeah one in front of
the hospital uh where we can try to do
it uh
yeah uh like
very openly and then the backup team in
our portobello road um
right yeah so so there'd be the advanced
team which would try to do it in front
of st mary's and if security
um
yeah uh and the idea would be presumably
saint mary's security will kick us out
but it's worth a try right and um if
they do uh then we'll have another team
that can do the same thing around here
in portobello everybody seems to think
it's lovely if you start you know
painting on the street uh so there will
be no problem and since the people are
mainly in virtual space and and they are
who is do applying the stencils doesn't
matter because it's the people creating
the thing um you could just have two
teams it wouldn't matter which one
actually ends up doing it yeah and so i
just want to add two
uh points to this description of the
visual assembly uh that is important for
me one is uh that it's enabled people uh
like me who is not native speakers in
english for me it's quite difficult
still to speak english i'm making
mistakes
uh
but i'm visual person and uh
yeah it's much more easy for me to
imagine how it will look like
um
and the same for kids
for most of the kids and yeah migrants
and the second thing says uh that visual
assembly
looks like it will be very uh easy and
cheap to implement so you don't need any
permissions most likely
we can
yeah we can have this meeting so zoom
endlessly but we also can do public art
projects uh with not uh
a lot of uh permissions
if we don't want to be permanent yeah so
that's it and then maybe we can ask um
lena to talk oh yes
let's do that
well i have to unmute myself well i'm
kind of look this is my first time on
this virtual meeting and i probably
misunderstood
uh what was expected of me so i i'm now
well trying to back off from speaking
because well what i was going to say is
is something else else entirely but just
one short
one one very brief thing as uh
nika mentioned the soviet experience and
someone else and of course i remember
how well when the soviet union was
disintegrating and we all were you know
this liberal intelligence and
anti-communist party and of course and
and and that and now well i live in the
united states and of course it is 30
years after the end of socialism and i
just uh i can well i can say that the
farther i am from soviet socialism
the well the better i think of it and of
course there can be these two things of
course there's nostalgia certain kind of
nostalgia were way young our parents
were alive etc but then at the same time
i think well good god because i i well
these are the two realities that i
compare social soviet socialism and and
then the uh american reality well that i
have here outside well
of
the building uh i'm now in so i'm
you know thinking about well how how
many things were actually good and how
things were available and how they were
organized the way that you felt not just
entitled but you didn't even give it a
thought you said well of course there
are always groups for for children there
are always music schools and of course
it should be free and and and child care
should be free and etc so my well what i
wanted to say today but you know i was
you know thinking in terms of not health
care but i was thinking in terms of of
care well i see the way these things are
organized as well these are the
questions uh not just of health care or
care these are the questions of the
whole social and political system how
the society is to be organized for how
resources resources are to be
distributed through market or through
policy and of course we understand there
are several versions of the market and
there are several versions of policy and
there are mixed models uh models and all
that but well these are the issues well
now when i when i see all these black
lives matter rallies and and you know
and people are trying to do something
something and for example students at
the department where i uh i work they
came up with this idea they want to do
something because the issue of social
justice is burning inside them and they
came up with this
petition or something well that
students of color and and black people
and african-americans should be treated
well
somewhat differently than other students
and and
and this is such a
uh
well a difficult issue of course because
how can you treat students differently
well we do but you know this is this of
course is a very ambiguous and great and
gray zone but i can see that people are
trying to do to do something people are
trying to come up with a solution and
this solution are well let's take this
step let's take this step let's train
police better let's well change this
but well there's not much conversation
or the conversation is too general about
how society should be organized how well
when i say society i mean the model of
resource distribution how how resources
need to be
organized uh how resource distribution
need to be organized on uh on a grand
scale so for me well this is really very
much a conversation about well
capitalism or socialism and well how we
change it really uh on this big level
that's mostly it hmm
yeah disentangle you're keeping it to
scale this is going to be difficult
because really to have a healthy health
system you get healthy civilization it's
a theme that keeps coming out so how do
we
confine what we do to eliminate that
yeah because you know if you're this is
a all this problem for everybody if you
cannot uh
like
if you cannot change the whole society
which is uh why bother uh
trying to change a small policies
nothing gonna
it's not not a matter in any case
uh
but yes i mean i guess the spirit in
which we're doing this is
imagine the accompanying institutions or
whatever would be appropriate you know
like imagine we have total power we're
just thinking about how we're going to
do this component yeah
in this case maybe we can uh i see baby
here and davey is uh talking about uh
local municipalism and this is attempts
to
to actually change something from the
ground up uh right right away debbie are
you here hi
hello
here i am sorry
you know i think that the uh
questions uh about sort of capitalism
socialism are obviously very important
but i also think that one of the things
that's really important and that this
tool
allows us to do is to
make uh you know begin
i mean when i say capitals and socialism
what i mean is whether you're talking
about capitalism or you're talking about
socials of the question of changing the
whole society and all the ways that all
these things are interrelated is of
course very important but i think that
what's exciting about this sort of
imaginary this this form of this tool
that you guys are working with here is
that it also allows us to start thinking
about how to build something new kind of
in the shell of the old you know it's
that whole dual power thing and one of
the things that's become very clear you
know from anarchist movements and
municipalist movements is that we have
to start we can't
wait i mean of course we want these big
moments black lives matter all these
things are very important occupy but
what what what this tool does is it
allows us to be ready for those moments
to start really making the changes
both mentally as you know which haven't
sort of talked about too i'm sure as
part of this whole
you know kurdish project is to kind of
change your whole mentality as they say
but also um you know in a very concrete
way to really uh
allow ourselves to free ourselves and
and also to think about i always like to
talk about it as a sort of a third poll
you know it's not necessarily it's
neither capitalism it's not socialism
it's maybe not even anarchism you know
it's something else that we're putting
together
that allows us to really think sort of
beyond traditional political categories
and and that in the process of doing it
to actually doing it working
collectively we kind of help we we
transform ourselves in the very process
it allows us it frees us to think
differently it frees us to come up with
literal you know physical alternative
structures and also to to just um
to become different people you know and
that there's a whole dialectical process
the more we sort of engage in this way
and practice this practice the more
we're able to sort of to to bring new
ideas and also to do this really
completely differently and to implement
some of these things uh
you know either in that way that we're
doing right now with mutual aid
things co-ops and all this sort of
alternative health things um and also
you know that it
gives us that those tools so that when
the moment comes when we can sort of
claim spaces um that we're we're ready
to do that so you know i just wanted to
say that and the other thing that i
would add is you know speaking when
we're speaking of rojava i just think uh
it's also you know they are doing this
kind of in a certain sense imaginary
work what one of the one of the things
that for example you know the maker java
green again groups are doing is they're
literally going out and planting trees
you know so
these kinds of models i think can be
really helpful for groups worldwide you
know um they're going out there they
planted 20 000 saplings and now they're
and they're creating and one of the
things that they really want to do is to
help um
sort of fix up you could say an existing
refuge that was really damaged in in war
but where people who have been fighters
in the ypg and ypj you know can go and
kind of be in nature and kind of heal
themselves so you know all of those
things i think that whole holistic
approach is very important and that this
is a exciting tool for that
um i have a question uh
to you and
maybe to somebody else who can
maybe david can also
advise how can we facilitate this vast
meetings of uh
like uh
imagine imagine if we come uh so when
it's come to the to actually do a visual
assembly let's say we have stencils we
have teams uh we're preparing that but
then we will need to have uh some
plan like you know how do we vote uh or
do we come together
specifically if we're talking about
health care system where we have people
who actually working in that system
uh day to day i
as i said i don't have anything to do
with hospitals i don't know how to run
inside i cannot even i would be afraid
to to push my agenda like to to my ideas
because maybe uh
it's a life and
death issues could be like if you're
arranged incorrectly
so how to do that you know i'm i'm
sorry that um kelly isn't on this call
and i don't know i thought the feeling
she she had planned to be but maybe she
didn't get the time exactly or something
um i'm not an expert in this in
facilitation and as you know you know
part of the municipal concept is that
you know people sort of
meet in smaller groups and then scale up
you know it's there's a sort of a
spokesperson who's a delegate of the
group and so i don't really know
um
you know i'm not an expert in
facilitation and and if you do have
hundreds of people doing this you
obviously have to have a mechanism and i
would say that that mechanism is
something that really should be explored
maybe like by a working group exactly
maybe there maybe there are other people
have you know more concrete ideas on
maybe on this call i don't even know
who's on the call exactly so yeah i
think we've got a lot of people here hi
cheers i'm gonna button um i think maybe
we should stop taking hands i don't know
freaking's got his hand up thanks fabian
i know maybe we should start taking some
hands um we have got we have got a few
people here that work with the nhs and
and have a lot to say i think so let's
start hearing from other people because
we've been there for quite a while now
um and we have some uh real concrete
decisions we need to make um
one of the things i think from all that
discussion one of the questions we were
talking about last time was we were
first talking about a hospital
redesigning a hospital and then we were
talking about kind of cottage hospitals
in different places and and the
and the kind of decentralization of
healthcare and what that might look like
so that's something we talked about i
think we've started to talk about
facilitation so maybe we should start
taking um comments on that from the
floor please um so i know fabian had his
hand up and then lemmy um you've got
your hand up so
maybe we'll hear from fabian first
okay um
when you were speaking it made me think
of people people familiar with the
preston model
it's a particular approach to
municipalism
that's been developed in preston in
northwest england
and they've used a lot of experience
from cleveland their councillors go over
to cleveland
and one of the key things that they were
trying to bring together was
the local
council the local university and the
local hospital as three big institutions
they call them anchor institutions
and then when the first things they
started to do was instead of
outsourcing the cleaners to these big
corporations
setting up workers co-ops to provide
cleaning services
which would cover
council buildings university buildings
and hospital buildings
and to try and develop that as a local
economy
so that actually
it's feeding back not just in terms of
healthcare in terms of how the economy
functions
in terms of how education functions in
an integrated approach so one of the
questions i would say on this is
some of the work has already is already
been started
and it's the case of if we're able to
link up with those people
and maybe have some input from them then
i think
there is a
lot of groundwork that's been done and i
think in the context of
the economic impact
of the
pandemic i think it that will open the
door to more people
wanting that sort of approach
rather than
what we've got here in the uk is boris
johnson
basically wanting to give contracts out
to the same
usual
road building elite and everything like
that so really i think part of it is
seeing where
the this um
a compatible approach being developed
and drawing people in rather than trying
to make us
you know so we
you know we've just arrived at some of
these issues
find out what's being done elsewhere
before and then try and link up with
that and that sort of connectivity
and then
see in terms of facilitation
what they've been doing in preston's
been going on for a few years so
learn from their experience
brilliant thank you thanks fabian um
elemy wanted to speak let me
yeah am i audible uh
you guys yeah we can hear you now thank
you nice uh so yeah amazing inputs here
from everyone um
firstly hi hi folks um
so
like if we are talking about the next
couple of hours like this particular
event i think
like personally i believe one way to
proceed would be
to like model ourselves into like
multiple stakeholders of all of the
possible groups that might be involved
in like running in a hospital
um
and then we can like after we've done
that we can use our insights and
knowledge we've gained like throughout
our lifetimes
and like put it into use in these
stakeholder groups maybe so
there might be the patients the doctors
the nurses the all the other
non-medical staff and then the janitors
and the
all the technicians and all of these
like you get get the feel right so
and there might there be healthy people
in the community who who don't have to
visit the hospital but still it's a
integral part of their community and so
just modeling ourselves like splitting
ourselves into various groups and
proceeding from there
all of this is under the assumption that
we're discussing what to do in the next
couple of hours uh i might be totally
wrong
but
yeah
so
thanks for bringing thank you yeah thank
you good suggestion yeah nice idea we'll
take we'll think about that in a sec
i've got having waiting to speak though
so having your muted
okay sorry
okay
i i said that i i really appreciate what
lamy has said because i i totally agree
with him i i think then
what one has to do is um
place this hospital
in a setting
where
different parts of the society
can also be in dialogue with it so there
is
first of all the the hospital within
itself
one could think of it like an assembly
model as well
you know not just
one executive
uh of uh managers running it
but actually you know where doctors
nurses
cleaners
and other people who are taking part
in today-to-day running of this hospital
and
involve them
with
bettering
the services um
uh off the hospital i guess
and also the patients too of course you
know and together with this maybe if we
had a city council you know or a
city assembly then hospitals could also
take part in these assemblies
and then
you know outside
also can have some input or the hospital
can have an input back into the
to the uh society
uh as well i guess so you know women
for example
the workers the the doctors the nurses
can also
within themselves because if we are
looking at
eliminating
uh several different
contradictions or problems or conflicts
or exploitative exploitation issues that
come up
then you know organizing it in such a
way that you both give
a better health care but also remove the
problems uh that may result from
other issues that that come up so i
completely agree with lemmy that in in
places like this
making it as local as possible
you know
so that people are responsible towards
one another
and
organizing the different
uh people who are working in a hospital
uh would be very important
yeah there's it's actually a yes
assembly
yeah of course yeah so i just wanted to
uh
ask yeah it's great so the hospital
should be organizing as an assembly
that's that's so obvious
and this probably should be part of the
architecture uh you know this big space
should be available for everybody to
meet and discuss you know like this map
of the hospital that i was using it
looks like a factory it's like you know
all these rooms and hallways and uh yeah
it's it's it it's designed as a factory
but
maybe we can ask um
we wanted to comment on that is it how
i've got one hand up sorry are you
opening it to the floor because i've got
one hand up nori has got a hand up huh
huh would like to speak
okay
all right yeah cheers unmute yourself
okay hi
yes uh
what was mentioned just reminded me of a
couple people i met from exarchia i hope
i'm pronouncing that correctly the um
yes the autonomous zone in athens and um
i recall he mentioned and of course i
may be misremembering and you just
mentioned it quickly is that um
speaking of assemblies uh there was a
sort of as we might turn it to
crowdsource healthcare where people who
had some sort of illness would speak to
a bunch of people who were gathering
some of whom are medical professionals
about their illness and getting you know
thoughts input from the group
and this might dovetail with the whole
assembly's idea
where it's not just medical
professionals the medical professionals
as i understand we're actually trying to
you know
undermine their monopoly and knowledge
by participating in this and many people
found it very therapeutic just to talk
about their problems and get the
sympathies and the um the help from
other people
and i don't know what you know that that
all the input necessarily was high
quality like you know some of it might
have been questionable something it
might have been like yeah use a crystal
i'm sure it'll be fine but whatever the
case is
um it had its own therapeutic benefits
and probably overall informed people
more in the sense of you know you hear
about afflictions
and uh you hear what other people think
about these things and you just can't
help but i assume get some expertise on
the matter so that might be um might
dovetail well with the um idea of the
stump please
i was going to say not um since don't do
this other hand up um another thing we
need to think about though is is
division of labor because i mean there's
michael albert's famous point that if
you try to create a directly democratic
institution which is an assembly model
where there's a strict division of labor
between people who are doing admin and
people who are actually doing care or
manufacture whatever it is they're doing
and people are doing the maintenance so
for people have such completely
different forms of knowledge that um you
reproduce the hierarchies anyway so he
said the only way to make a truly
democratic institution is to try to
distribute the types because of balanced
job complexes um you know make sure
everybody does at least a little of each
broad category of work um
so does this correspond with what
we were saying about stakeholders
earlier yes basically
yeah exactly um yeah this is a really
interesting idea maybe we should take
this for uh further i mean there's
different ways we could we could do that
and we could split the group up into
what what you're where you're coming
from where what your um actual
in terms of what how many how many have
we got here 12 people
um
split us up into whatever you know i'm
sure there's some people that work with
the nhs and some people that have been
as patient um and and into into those
different divide ourselves in that way
um another way we could do it is use
different colors for the different um
stakeholders in in our visual in our
visual representation
um
there are there are a few things we need
to sort out for the next meeting i was
wondering if we wanted to have a bit of
discussion on on some of those because
there's three kind of main questions
isn't it one one is the facilitation
um
two is who is going to make up the
actual teams um
carrying out the um
making the graph making the uh picture
making the artwork
um
and
the other one is yeah how
what what kind of scale are we talking
about um are we talking about work
making a representation of a hospital or
of a city and how that is linked up
because a lot of those questions at the
beginning we were talking about for
example in royav
it opens up questions of okay
where where are the other
where's the school where's the council
meeting place where are those in
relation to the hospital and how does it
all fit together um and so in this
visual assembly um the question the
question i'd like to ask everyone is
yeah
what kind of scale do you want to think
do we want to be
creating on do we do we want to
think of the city
and how different things fit together
and how those health particularly those
health institutions or how facilities
are going to fit together
um are we talking about a centralized um
uh
site
house of healing
uh i don't know if anyone's got any
comments on that
i would i would suggest concentrating on
house of healing and
territories around uh because our first
experience uh with the city of care was
exactly that that it's required a lot of
work preparational work and
conversations to really go
to to have something that
will be valuable for not just a fun
experience not one more projects but
something that could stay there and
people can reuse it even as an idea uh
and a new experience uh yeah so i would
suggest we concentrate on the
specifically healthcare
yeah in that larger context imagining
ourselves in a society where everything
has been democratized but we don't have
to go over the details of how
yeah yeah that makes sense um
so to return to the thing about the
stakeholders and the different
stakeholders and what do people think
about that
are we do do we think that it's better
that in in our vision assembly we
actually do split up i mean we can have
break off rooms in a zoom meeting so we
can have different meetings within the
zoo meeting
we can go to those groups and then
return for a plenary maybe have a
plenary at the beginning go off um
work in our stakeholder groups then come
back
but that in the actual visual assembly
that would mean the artists on the
ground are being directed by different
groups um or or are they being directed
by the plenary um
i think so yeah the question again
by the plenary two different groups
right and that's how you normally do it
like in fact we're probably going to do
that today we're going to form a series
of of working groups and empower them to
do certain things right
um
if we're if we're in different if
different different stakeholder groups
or we've divided labor in that way
and even our intellectual labor about
those different groups
then does that mean
is that going to mean that we're being
too specialized are we if we're just
thinking as patients are we missing out
um things we're missing an opportunity
for us all to meet
all together without and and to destroy
that division of labor yeah that's
that's that's the key thing that's what
i was worried about with the stakeholder
like you know in theory we'd want
everyone to have at least a little bit
of everything
yeah
brilliant jim uh you had your hand up
there
you will need to unmute
[Music]
are you talking to me yeah yeah are you
talking to me
yeah no no no i was just moving about oh
no oh my battery's about to die okay so
now i was just fiddling about so no no
i'm just
i'm just um listening intently
sorry anybody on the spot
okay so um so so i guess that's that's
the tricky question how do we do i mean
the fact that everybody should have
experience at everything doesn't mean
that certain people wouldn't prefer to
concentrate on certain areas for their
brainstorming activities you know
um
means that they'll do some more
effectively
uh but yeah i but we are not going to do
it today and so it's like i think we
should be supposed to well it sounds
like there's two things we're discussing
today we might well form working groups
that will meet you know before the next
larger meeting you know to do the
stencils or to do the figure out of the
details of facilitation
and so yeah the stencils is the other
the other
concrete outcome that we're looking for
is is the the creation distinction
agreement on the stencil so i think that
that might work really well if we were
to divide into stakeholder things and
look for specific stencils for that that
would make sense to those stakeholders
and another thing is we could have
different colors for those different
stakeholders so there's a visual thing
where you can see roots um kind of
easily if if we're going to be thinking
in terms of different different um
groups
of workers or consumers etc
um
yeah fabian
yeah um
the uh
neo liberals
they've already brought out a game of
building a hospital
have they
yes and the object of the game
is weirdly enough
to make money
why am i not shocked
what's quite interesting is
how they use graphics for the game
and they're creating a dynamic model
which actually you are
each turn you're growing it you're
getting more doctors in you've got like
the these
very important people these are the
cleanest
so you you get the cleaners
uh and also there's a lot of issue made
about
car parking
yeah that seems to keep them i mean
certainly in the uk something people
crazy about because for a while the
hospitals are making a lot of money out
of very high
fees to park a car there
because well
the bus service isn't too good
so
um what i picked up from the game was it
it was a way of creating a dynamic model
so you start off with the images but
then you actually have the idea that
your patients coming through and
everything like that
their model and their whole dynamic is
about dollars
but it doesn't have to be done that way
so i think if if we start off with some
some kind of
snapshot depiction
but then we then the next phase we're
thinking of from the beginning
is to move to a dynamic
model of how
it could all be all be done
so that as
different needs change
the the the model is adapting to it
and again the other thing is linking it
into other issues like public transport
right that you can actually say actually
part of having a sensible hospital is
it might be having small hospitals so
people don't have to travel too far or
making sure that there is suitable
public transport so you don't need acres
and acres of car park
and all the problems involved in that so
i think if we start off with
even if we start with snapshots
we're then looking towards creating a
dynamic model a bit further down the
line
so i think the snapshots and the and the
um
stencils are good and then if you start
like i like that picture
the layout picture you
you showed us but you then can have
start moving you know having things
representing
objects which move around in them
the flows and then that could be
um
[Music]
open up this this kind of
dynamic approach to it once once having
the steps was in place
great
yeah like love the idea for games yeah
when we're looking at images from the
yeah we found it online thank you so
much that's great maybe we can also do
like after after we do this
there it is visual assembly we can do
our own game and uh you know just put it
online for people to print out
like the
different yeah this is a this is a great
media
so it's brilliant
thank you treat patients for profit to
build the city's most lucrative clinic
[Laughter]
yeah we can also make some kind of job
game like you know for the vampires too
to suck up their blood and resell it
i'm sorry
i'm sorry everybody i'm just gonna have
to leave because my battery is about to
die so if you can keep me in the loop
and that and um
it can be in this uh uh group for the
actual uh nhs workers and if i can't
need their tools to listen yeah
so that will be my total kind of yes you
wish to draw on your knowledge
what are the tasks before us um that we
need to do and we yeah then we're gonna
saw uh maybe we should just figure out
the working groups that will be working
before the next plenary
we have making stencils um we have
deciding on stencils um which i guess we
want to get from each of the working
groups it would be it'll be nice for
every working group to come up with a
few stencils that they think would be
useful and so that we can collate them
um we also need to decide on who's going
to be on the street on the day so we've
got
um
a few different roles so we need
since we're talking about two teams so
we're gonna need two of these so for
each team we need an artist a
videographer a scribe and one or two
assistants
um so one two three four five people per
team and then
um
obviously on zoom we need a kind of uh
facilitator or chair um probably two
just to be on the safe side
anything critical you want to
but maybe i suggest we will make this
decision not right now who will be cool
because uh if we start to work in this
working group that will take us time
maybe a couple of weeks and we will
communicate with each other and then uh
during that time we will figure out if
people will figure out who's really want
to to do what uh so that's my suggestion
and now if we will have a stencils uh
like ideas for stencils i'm
i'm ready to design them like to put
them in the same design and to cut them
out physically for london
myself so far for the
at least one group and we can do it in
portabella road as we did already so one
team you have
yeah oh so we'll be the back up of
portobello yeah we can be a better yeah
in front of the hospital oh you're the
ninja yeah yeah sure i'll i'll i'll be
the artist there at the unless anyone
else wants to but yeah i'll be happy to
be on that team at um saint mary's yeah
we should invite uh we should also uh uh
figure out how to invite a lot of press
because probably you would not be able
to to just to to do the public art okay
they will chase you out
and explain yeah we'll have a
videographer i think i said that she
might join us in that team oh yeah
oh she is
okay
all right
yeah oh hello
hi sorry um yeah no i i just missed that
austin what were you saying uh so we're
talking about so uh nico and david are
going to do the portobello team they're
going to be there on the ground there
and then i said that you said you'd
might be being in win with me at saint
mary's yeah yeah
yeah brilliant
and so yeah
otherwise
i'll definitely fix that before
okay
cool
so then
um
i said many working groups we should
just yeah we should probably oh you
think you should we don't need to set
the working groups down you think you
can do that by email i i don't know
i mean yeah i don't know i'm used to
doing this in person and you send it
around to sign up sheet but i guess the
equivalent of this energy would be a
virtual thing
i mean does anyone have any um
ideas or or
suggestions for what these working
groups would be i think that's what we
need to do is we should just figure out
what they are and then like
people for each off um
so guys but should we just throw stuff
out i think i already proposed that um
wait uh it was a proposal um
so it's uh
um
one way to counteract some of the
deficiencies in my proposal as david was
mentioning
is uh maybe one person could like across
time be a part of like multiple working
groups so like once we could have like
two iterations of this like
we could farm working groups twice
basically with people like swapping
working groups so
so some of the aspects like david
mentioned of people not having like a
specific role in order to make not
encourage hierarchy that that is like
modeled in as well i guess
okay that makes sense okay
um
yeah but i think the working group is uh
so it's a patient
gnosis in this case it's all like um
yeah health workers doctors
and
okay so uh should have been writing this
okay well other people
here we are
patients nurses doctors healthy people
and many more obvious
architecture
architects
maybe since since we're like sorry for
butting in here sorry sorry for this i
i'm pretty not used to online meetings
but uh yeah maybe since we're just like
uh not many people we could just have
like an in-group and an out group and
then within the in-group we could decide
uh whoever like all of the different
roles and everything and the
perspectives so the people who like
like the in-group will be
maybe the people who work in the
hospital
and the out group would be maybe the
patient plus the wider community and
that would be like like just two two of
them and then each working group
gives the time and effort to you know
like think of all all of the aspects i
guess uh yeah sorry for taking too much
time
[Music]
i was just thinking in that context
there is
the the in and out i thought made sense
i.e the people who are spending their
time
keep keeping the whole thing going and
then you've got the patients coming in
as one particular people receiving care
but then there is the the
how
the um the hospital would exist within
the broader supply of different services
transport
uh
so
we start having those connections
uh
being brought in as well rather not you
know the cleaning how is the cleaning
done
right
um you know or or how is how do we make
sure we've got a proper public transport
right coming coming to the facility
those sorts of questions right
yeah
the easy
so that would be like the logistics i
think it's an outside like i think it's
a professional in group but who is
outside so it's like a second time
without a second group of outsiders not
the patients but so we got the basically
the the
care team logistic
team and the
potential patient team
yeah that makes sense to people
yeah
and then this
should be the the us like the people
should uh we're the architects
no no i mean like not me and david but
everybody together yeah so so the groups
should come together and then decide
what kind of architecture should uh this
place have and depending on what we
decide that will be our map that we will
uh create
um
you know so i propose one today as a
like uh the the central hospital and
then it's surrounded by uh this uh kind
of preventive care but maybe it should
be like the hospital should not be one
place in the middle it should be
distributed you know rooms throughout
the space uh
connected by public transportation or
like you know in the working distance so
this map should be result of
architectural ideas should be result of
discussions of
representatives of the working groups
together yeah
something like that
excuse
and i can also actually talk to some
kind of
cool architects that i know maybe we can
involve them and they can
help us to develop some kind of
you know so i think part of the idea of
working groups is that anybody who's
involved in them can recruit people who
they think have some special
you know
experience yeah
yeah i've got uh lemmy had his hand up
let me just
you need to unmute yourself
yeah i was just doing the stars gesture
i guess
the twinkling gesture like the
uh yeah that one
um so
like one thing is we need to think of uh
like swapping these like groups together
like across time as well maybe so if
like if you give like six hours in one
working group then all of your group
maybe then moves on
to be like something else
uh
so yeah
like if if you're like patients for a
while then maybe we could get together
and discuss and then have another round
where we or something else
and then like think of that again and
then maybe discuss once more so like a
two-step process in order to you know as
i said earlier to in order to like
prevent those hierarchies i guess
but i think that's more of a
functional everyday day-to-day thing it
won't won't turn up in the
even if you do one iteration i don't
think those hierarchy keys will like
manifest themselves i guess
so
what do you think everyone like of the
the idea of two like two iterations uh
with each each each group being like
different things like different roles
each time
yeah over time you mean so so it changes
after like a week or two weeks we we we
reassign groups or we we switch groups
is that what you mean
yeah like however long we decide to keep
it
i'm not against it but i'm thinking more
if we said okay
let's do a first iteration of this
give it a certain
you know shape
something that you know things we want
to achieve
and how much time
we expect it to take
and then come back and look at it all
and then
with a view to including that people
moving around
encouraging people to move around at
that stage
rather than to
get too much into detail at that moment
because we might want to change how it
all works at that stage as well
maybe yeah absolutely yeah and one more
point i think we should collectively
decide upon is the time and effort all
of us
in like
the general guidance of the time and
effort should be collectively decided i
guess
that's just what i feel
when you say collectively
general guidance of the time what do you
mean more specifically
um so in the working groups how many
hours basically do we expect to spend in
like coming up with stuff and just
researching stuff and stuff so yeah
so you mean like uh each working group
probably can meet for like you know
uh
for another hour
and so
then yeah and then
we can just uh
what do you think a tie also like should
we just do another assembly like but
smaller group
for
for the patient and for the doctors i
mean for the practitioners
the ins and outs i mean yeah i guess if
we aim to have another meeting in a
week's time or something um
for each group i'm interested in who who
here would be in the in group who would
be in the out group where would you
place yourself
um
in the participant window there is a i
think there is is there a way to put
your hand up or something but there's a
reaction thing
is a reactions i think i'm a host so i
don't get it
so what is it thumbs up for
the in group thumbs
wave for the out group is that what it
is it's thumbs up and wave
yeah
it's a wave if you're in the out group
and
thumbs up if you're in the in group
you i think you work you work in the nhs
audio so you'd probably be the in group
confused um so yeah maybe i'll just go
with ingrow
yeah but i mean yeah this is the thing
you know i mean you can take different
you can um take a different
it's not
yeah it's an interesting so
it's like a snap bowl the the reaction
it disappears after a while
that's why i was wondering
um
yeah i mean
i i think
in terms of like i i would like i would
like to be in in the in group i don't
work for the nhs um but i'm a long-term
patient at the nhs um but i would like
to i would think one as an organizer i'd
like to be in that group just to help um
that group focus and and and answer any
questions about the visual assembly uh
and about what we're doing in that in
that way i also would like to be
involved groups so
i think people should be able to choose
which group they want to be in based on
on their interests not based on a
particular relationship with the nhs i
mean i have no i'm in the united states
i i have no relationship with the nhs
but if you want to be in an you know in
that group i think that's what's
important and um i also agree i think it
was with fabian that we should see how
it goes i mean as somebody who
personally is incredibly pressed for
time it's the idea of swapping groups
all and doing you know you know i think
it should be an open question so
well let's should we set a date for for
a meeting of the working group so we so
we all know where we're gonna be
um
we could have them simultaneously we
could have them one after the other or a
different time um simultaneous might be
interesting so yeah
what i would suggest is if we have them
simultaneously
but we we start off with like i don't
know quarter of an hour
so we can invite people into the
oh yeah this is what we're doing we're
going to split into two groups that's um
half past three so you need to be
sitting out thinking which one you want
to go into so if we're inviting people
in
they can get
their head around
what's going on
then we have the two separate groups and
we break into the
the in and the out group
for an agreed amount of time
and then
when that time is over
each group
perhaps using um
some means like google docs or whatever
to keep track of their discussion then
after that green amount time you come
back
not to have a full explanation but just
to kind of say yeah well we had good
time or oh we argued all the time or
whatever
but just so that we we keep the overall
sense of unity together
and then people can start looking at
what the other group had written and and
and see what other connections there are
between the two
sounds good to me yeah yeah we have a
plenary at the end do at the same time
maybe should we say in a week's time
this time next week
okay
we've got consensus
so cool thank you everybody oh yeah
sorry these annoying people across the
street uh who like to entertain
everybody by playing from their window
and it was great the first like eight
times
i started
they'll lip sync two or three and then
play their one song which is a nice song
but you know after a while
do they play it over and over and over
again no no they just do it like every
day
around either two or four you know on
the weekends
they were doing in the week for a while
during lockdown how long is that i'm
really curious now what what ben what's
up
oh they stopped they're playing another
one now uh it's like i want to live like
a rolling stone seems to be the the
foreign material like they they all the
other ones are covered but that's the
one one it's like their song
practicing
[Laughter]
music and the pandemic yeah
yeah what's the thing of living on
portobello road somebody's gotta be like
serenading everybody
and he gives him time
are people uh
getting out doing their shopping yeah
yeah at this point like everybody's just
like one in 20 people have a mask
only one in 20 on the neighborhood i
mean then they legally have to like get
on public transportation
um and to get it
depends on people just people are just
going about one yeah
[Music]
people are so impressed about what's
happening in the usa that they're
opening the pubs and um
today
independence day they call it
so that they
can actually achieve the same sort of
levels of a second spike as the usa
because they be really jealous that um
america first america first
[Laughter]
it's nice to see y'all yeah
thank you everybody for coming this was
great i hope it will work maybe we can
actually
yeah
kind of important
uh public monument
that they collectively designed
yeah and produced yeah so hopefully see
you all next week and then um in the
meantime also think about those stencils
think about those signs and those yeah
that's the next step we need to come up
with up you know
yeah i think in in
what i'm thinking is for next week is
that we have an actual time in the
meeting where maybe five or ten minutes
we go off and we just find a google link
of an image that we think would be good
for a basis for a stencil and we all
just bring it back in the meeting
or yeah or maybe people do that as their
homework
right exactly each other comes back like
like you send people obviously each one
of you can bring one person to the next
meeting in this case each one of us as a
teacher i put very little stock in
homework
i want to see them work in front of me
i think it often works better if you do
the work there in the class
so yeah homework is great though if
people can think about that before next
week and join this week and then bring
some ideas together or email us at um we
at v hyphen a dot
do you all know the website we've got a
website up now as well when we've got
our
email it's not really totally ready it's
still under construction
like but we are working on that it's
making progress
it's making progress yeah it's getting
there it's getting there it's good um
so if anyone wants to actually add to it
anyone has any thoughts about it and you
can add to it
so we haven't got much on it at the
moment we've just got that text that we
did for today's meeting
very nice
there a little bit about who was there
last time
um and i put a few things
uh kind of stencil examples though they
should tweet this
and that was that was our link that was
for today so we'll probably do a little
bit of a write-up about today which will
come on to this um website uh the
address is there va
city and if you want to contact us as
well our email is down the bottom here i
think
we at
the hyphen a dot city
um
so yeah if you if you are wondering
what's happening then check the
assemblies link on there and this we
will have a report hopefully in the next
couple of days we'll have a report on
today's meeting um and some details
about the next meeting
okay
all right brilliant
cheers thanks again everyone thank you
hi everyone thanks everyone
everyone
take care
so so are we supposed to like
self-organize now into different yeah
we're good i guess we'll send out cc
things do we have a cc list of everybody
on it i mean oh no we don't oh my god
well there we go that's what we do
maybe people are leaving the email here
yeah if you could leave email in the
chat that would be good
okay um leave a contact in the chat and
then we'll have everyone's comments
just to make sure that we've got it
together i mean
because some people i know i'm
contacting on facebook some people i'm
contacting email some people on my phone
etc
yeah and then um i've got some people
i'd like to throw in danny cc let's
remember sophie said that she was gonna
get
involved uh some you know so we'll just
like all throw in some people we think
either might be or should be
you know
okay
cool so
yeah and uh i i i understand that um
uh that you will put the recording on
the same place where you put last time
yeah
yes yes if i get the recording i think
you guys might get the recording because
you started it um
it's probably because you started it so
it's probably going to be on your local
computer okay so i'll have to do that
again
it takes a bit of time doesn't it it's a
big bit of video
yeah
yeah but it did you just go away do
something else come back for once in a
minute
and the chat as well don't forget the
chat uh maybe take the email addresses
off so the chat but it's only shared
between us and it's not like it's going
public
um let's remember to save the chat as
well or share it in the shared drive
someone just
say oh well you don't have pdf you do
that on the word
no i don't i don't want to say goodbye
but um
all right well this was a great meeting
and enjoyed uh working with all you guys
let us continue
this this project it sounds like it's
actually going to be really awesome i'm
quite
quite enthusiastic
how do you feel naked
great yeah let's let's see what we can
actually do if uh not only talking
yeah yeah i was about to type this in
the chat but i forgot that
like i wish i were like a professional
like expert video game developer you
know i could just
share my screen and then you guys could
tell me i could whip up model models and
stuff okay now you need like a 10 acre
parking lot oh no the fees are like
really low so yeah we could do all sorts
of cool
stuff in a video game i guess yeah doing
something digitally is is an idea as
well and maybe it's something we could
try
we could try some sort of um
collaborative drawing
platform or space
um
it's an interesting idea yeah i think
doing doing doing an assembly visually
just totally digitally
but yeah
it might be something worth trying
before before we do uh do one using
paint yeah because our artifacts in the
digital world like are as real as
artifacts in the physical world
and then maybe we could just go out and
then do it in the real world like in the
physical world once more i guess sorry
so yeah
yeah there's various mappings in there
of digital and
physical um
you know this project when i first
come across it it reminded me of like in
the in the late 90s it was something
called war chalking remember war
chalking
people used to walk around chalking
where is that those hobo signs that you
get on buildings
um with chalk
um and people would do it with wireless
networks or the wireless networks that
were open and they'd write what kind of
oh this is what saul used to going about
i think it was it it came from that hobo
hobo markings in america where hobos
would go across the country and just you
know just wander out oh yeah leave
markings on certain places and shops to
say that this was a good place to beg or
this is a good spot to this is a good
place to get on the train there's a
bunker train etc and so they made these
chalk markings on buildings where you'd
get a wireless network and say okay this
is an unsecured wireless network um
the pavement so you could walk around
the city
and you get it in london where you
wander around the city with your with
your with your laptop because it was
that time
there weren't smartphones at that time
this was late 90s no i remember this
i remember once i was in amsterdam and i
was supposed to meet some guy to show up
and i was wandering around the city of
my laptop like this until i could find
something i could log on to send him an
email where the hell are you yeah but
eventually walk long enough to find one
so this would be to save you a lot of
time yeah
this would this they'd use the chalk to
do that but i mean the the interesting
thing is where this where this map that
we're making kind of over spills into
the territory that's why i like this
thing of it being outside saint mary's
you know
there's a lot of potential with digital
stuff and i'm not knocking that at all i
think it's really good but i like the
thing yeah being outside mary's it
and allowing this map to over spill into
its territory and take over yeah that
hybrid
the the the two kind of dimensions start
interacting like
yeah and that's that's this thing this
thing that was it come up in the
discussion of the hospital as a visual
descent assembly um and and that's
that's a you know we
and and it's kind of that in in that
you know in bringing health workers in
and because health workers being impart
this is is a central part of it
basically we're kind of creating a
little hospital right
we're creating a space in which um
health professionals are working
together
so the visual assembly is a hospital in
that way as much as we're talking about
the hospital becoming a visual assembly
we're talking this visual assembly
becoming a hospital
i mean also i'm i'm thinking maybe i
might wander around and see if i can
take some
photographs of a
bricks and mortar hospital just
oh yeah very interesting
[Music]
please share
yeah but i mean then then start because
i'm thinking okay
where am i going to go with this
then i'm thinking well
i really want to go with what's
happening around me
so if i start using the
photographs of what's actually there
it starts to key in
and if i do it as i'm walking around
i'll start to see the different
localities how
um
health center at the bottom of my road i
don't know what they do there
i must do something
yeah i notice that when i walk around
here i just really don't understand
there's all this stuff i had no idea it
was there
yeah
that helps we've gotta have a look at
that
place on the um
in ilford fame that um
old iron age four you know oh yeah which
is now it's now got a health center on
it i reckon there's some kind of ley
line being tapped there
some ancient site
and they've got this they've got this
like residential care place there but
this space is so important to this you
know what i mean it's all about space
but from right at the beginning when
you're talking about hospitals and how
you feel in hospitals when i was a
teenager quite a few of my friends ended
up in psychiatric hospitals and that
psychiatrist was really close to where i
was living so we and
and there was one friend a couple of
friends of ours that once they were
released from it they would then go and
camp in the grounds of the psychiatric
hospital because they because it was
such a safe place for them and we used
to often hang out there you know we and
we'd find that we had we
it was a space that we could actually go
and hang out with our friends because
half of them were in there um and and
actually just be and be able to to feel
kind of safe
um
yeah so i think it's this you know and
and with covid as well it's it's all
about access to space and oh and and
that space in your home being a space of
healing versus stay in your home but
people have been dying because
they haven't gone out of their homes um
and being turned away from hospitals so
it's yeah i think that that
space is really important to be out in
the space and
in the mental hospitals a hundred years
ago they used to have their own
breweries
really
yeah they're on farms
they took so much activity within
their community i think it was just like
you read about this and it's just like
you know a bit like monasteries and
monasteries using their own breweries as
well so you know yeah and i think
the
monastery and the hospital
certainly in europe have a a shared
history
and the school and the school and
there's there's these spaces
yeah and you know and the way that it
used to be
the nurses used to dress like nuns
because because originally they were
none yeah
yeah so you have this this this
sort of transition and then you have the
leper hospitals
which were basically
um
that can asylum to separate lepers from
the rest of society
for the hospitalers a monastic order
because like the templar the knights
templar a monastic order in the hospital
it's very interesting that museums also
uh kind of coming out of their
churches and as a replacement of
churches and it looks like hospitals are
very much the same you know sort of
division of the what what had formerly
been the sort of sacred yeah
yeah and in this case we were like we
just finished now talks to david about
uh that is ending up with this russian
cosmism and their uh
attempt to achieve immortality and it's
interesting that having was talking
about
this one
now she was taking about one percent who
is trying like now to
all success and the chief immortality
for themselves right so this is the
logical end of their attempt to create
what is the destruction of everything
else yeah yeah
yeah you can do the age of divinity in
it yeah truly yeah
yeah and then and then you can
also talk about russian avant-garde
who's actually wanted to uh to stop
making art in uh in uh an attempt to
make every human being being as their
art piece or recognize every human being
being an artist and in this case
hospital is the ideal museum
where like every human being who is
there is like taking being taken care of
and treated as a value in themselves
rather like a work of art
yeah yeah yeah so you have a
relationship
unique value and have a relationship
among people
instead of relationship between people
and objects that you preserve yeah and
so this nicole i thought that of the
russian original russian cosmism he was
saying that museum is the earth of
humanity that's traveling through the
universe so
that's that's where we have to put all
our attempts and uh
resources to preserve
and to heal and to kind of uh make you
live forever
things like that
yeah
but uh like i don't know a lot about mhs
if we have time maybe we can ask
actually just wilkers if it's uh if it's
possible to change anything all of the
activists who is trying to to
uh
so now it's like only it's only my
understanding that i'm outside
uh so nhs trying to get more money to
pay more to the
people who is working on nhs but because
senator says like any other western
hospital is designed as a factory the
money will go from up down
basically the managers will be
right the managers decide who gets the
money they tend to decide it goes to the
managers
yeah
so that's that's how it goes i'm just
checking what is what is the status of
the current in
in the chess situation well no the the
money comes from local commissioning
groups there's clinical commissioning
groups
decide
and the government sort of decides what
they decide so it's it's very
bureaucratic it's not really about the
managers um at all
so
it's very political it's all very
political um and
really at the moment we need to be
putting more pressure on
the government to make the right
decisions
so it's incredibly political at the
moment um
as well like more than more than usual
because of everything that's going on
with covered and
they've kind of lifted lock down
essentially now or effectively now
it's going to be a complete show
we're going to have yeah i mean we've
mentioned it already it's going to
the the infection rate the death rate is
all going to
rise you know
it's inevitable now and you know you
know they've opened pubs it's going to
be carnage really and people aren't
going to be and that's what the
government want and they're going to
blame the public and it's just going to
be
more shenanigans of the same kind really
um
do you think they're covering it i mean
they are boris is having to concede to
what
you know what what the consensus is so
it is actually possible to make a bit of
a change at the moment because they've
really riled up they've been clapping
and all of that stuff every week so
people are really
a bit more engaged at the moment so we
can actually i don't know if that's what
you were saying but yeah we can actually
like you know there has been a
significant u-turn in one of the
immigration policies yeah
that that's to do with that
yeah yeah yeah so initially unless you
were working on the front line as a
migrant
and even if you were working on the
front line you still had to pay like 600
pounds to access health care now that's
on top of taxes and everything so
they're paying
loads of money and they're and they're
risking their lives so
because there was so much fuss made for
years by the way this plot has been
being made for a long time but because
of the pandemic
they're having to actually take heed to
what people are saying because of all
this clapping and you know the
government are joining in because they
have to do
they have to they can't it's it's it's
far too revealing if they you know and
obviously a lot of people are aware that
they're really really racist and awful
and hate the working class but a lot of
people do read
these trash newspapers and believe that
stuff because they don't they just don't
i don't know you know they do
whatever the reasons are
they the propaganda is reaching them and
affecting them so at the moment things
are different for whatever for a
collection of reasons but things are
different we are able to kind of so with
that immigration policy for example it's
been changed now
i don't think it's actually work i don't
think
it's actually being properly implemented
i think they're still lying to us
because they just keep lying to us but
they've had to change the policy
so if you do work in the nhs you don't
have to pay the surcharge however other
migrants do have so it's still really
violent and it's still difficult for you
to access healthcare but if you've
risked your life to work for barely
anything
you don't have to pay this 400 pound or
600 i can't remember now but you don't
have to a month you pay or what what is
that access healthcare so if you
actually need support
you have to pay a lot of money if you
actually want to like if if you get
covered 19 for example or or it's really
quite
yeah
because i'm a migrant
so that i'm supposed to pay every month
for what does it talk about i think it's
i don't think it's if you're paying
every month i think it's if you want to
access certain
you know certain facilities in the nhs
you will have to pay a lot of money is
that not the case do you not have to pay
okay i mean
you guys says what broke her foot at one
point and just went in and they just
wanted an envelope with her address on
it and didn't ask any questions about
her migration that's interesting so
maybe it just depends on your status i
mean i've been a migrant for years and
then
well i think i mean yeah i'm not sure
how it works then in that case but
you know
and
i suppose it is more racist than i
realized in that case and maybe it is if
you are yes i think it's racism
are exempt in ways that i didn't even
realize so that's really interesting
actually
but
i think it's because
the implementation varies and some
people just don't bother to implement it
and haven't and some people have been
the pressure's been put more so
by management to implement it so i think
there's a lot of local variation
maybe in london they don't do that
just
one you might one day they don't you
might go the same place the next day and
there's a different staff member
for ten years and i've never once had
anybody
yeah i don't know i don't know but i'm
just that that that
picking up from bits that i've had but
when they tried to bring it in
lots of people said no we're not we're
not going to waste our time doing that
migration is a problem also like in graz
and austria people were saying
immediately that uh
all the care most of the workers is
coming from
london
yeah and they're like really badly paid
and very badly kind of uh
they really were they're very very
badly paid and treated yeah yeah and
they leave in the crowd
there's all these charges they put on
them for the same for what they do
basically yeah there's a similar
yeah very similar and it's my migration
is it looks like one of the key problems
of the healthcare system so it's exactly
this
type of logistic that is between outside
and inside of hospital it's it's
actually not even about government it's
not politics of government towards the
healthcare it's a foreign policy
in between governments that is affecting
the way how
the healthcare system organized
that is very interesting but the other
question i want to ask is
so we do have a democratic school
schools that run democratically we do
there are examples examples of that not
all of them
a very small amount but they exist but
does it exist anywhere democratically
around hospitals if it's even
any examples of that in the world if
it's i don't know
some therapeutic communities have set
out to
to do that in a psychiatric context
uh psychiatric is definitely
i'm sorry about my english i would just
ask him if there is an example if
there is an example of democratically
around hospital anywhere in the world
and so the answer was
yes some psychiatric facilities probably
after french french 1968 uh
yeah there's a whole series there's no
it goes back to the 18th century
uh there was the retreat which was
founded by henry toot
way way back they're actually shut
he got shut down about two years ago but
he'd been going for
a hundred years
wow
and that was
when the started to be a change the idea
of um
recovery from
mental health problems rather than just
putting people on the show like they
were like uh
something for the public to pay money to
go and look at
that that kind of happened there
and then in in the previous um
uh previous session i put up some stuff
beforehand about the uh
hospital set up in sierra leone um
and
henry
who set up this this one in the late
18th century was also involved
with with that so they had the idea of
asylum
gets moved over to
uh people who've been enslaved
needing particular care and there were
abuses in that as well
so that that kind of was going around in
that period around
um
period around the french revolution and
just in that period just after that with
the uh quakers playing a particularly
strong role in that
to what extent democracy was achieved or
was
an aspiration
again
and do you think it's
possible anywhere right now in nhs to
find a small place uh inside of this
system that will be
agreed to implement at least elements of
that that's what they did in the school
system they just found some experimental
small schools where they said okay let's
try and see what happens inside slowly
they build up this movement uh
if it's possible to do any of this semen
chest
um
i'm just
looking to see if i can find um
there was a therapeutic community
network and i'll put it in the um
i think it would be it would be more
possible in private um health uh
institutions like like the educational
thing must be must be private um or
private or free schools that are being
able to do that um
not um state schools
um
you can write in england it's all pro
only private but for example in germany
and in israel it's a public institution
who is uh
schools who is free and democratic
yeah but in france and then uk it's only
in the us also it's only private and
that's a big difference they're private
and not public because of course only
people with money can go to the summer
hill because like 20 thousand pounds a
year
yeah yeah there was the spk in germany
which is like you're saying it
post 68 it was about 60s
but that was where the patients and the
doctors took over the asylum and uh
they they work together
yeah socialist patients collective
they were connected to the to the red
army faction as well
um so some of them went on to join the
the red army faction where the spk sort
of
folded when the hospital was retaken
basically they occupied the hospital
yeah and some of the doctors joined the
patients and and and then there was a
cover band in australia who used to have
the same name the red arm production or
the spk
[Music]
so basically like
because it's a silent i understand that
island like yeah
so you don't think it's actually even
any chance to to experiment them at the
moment i think at the moment you know
we're not even go we're not even able to
go into our
places of work as therapists because
they're completely taken over by
coverage related
you know managed trying to manage kind
of outpatient units and at the moment
all sort of
normal or all kind of standard
um
specialist care and stuff not standard
sorry specialist care is completely
just not has completely stopped we're
not doing lots and lots of things that
we would usually be doing
so it's just a
bit of a weird situation at the moment
but i can't have a little
word around and see i i don't think that
there's much scope for at the moment
just because of
and also at the nhs like
people like me are saying don't go out
don't don't do things you know be safe
stay at home so it's
a bit of a conflict of interest there
but i can have a look and see if there
are spaces that are available because
you know kind of on the flip side they
might be somewhere that is
available i'm just thinking as i'm
talking about it i don't know i think i
think that is that you know i i've heard
of a few instances where
i don't know what james's experience is
because you're you're going in jim are
you to to the hospital um and whether
whether the the failure of management or
the or the space created by covid or the
kind of emergency that's been created
has that allowed for more democratic
decision making
on the wards
has it allowed because i think i think
to some extent there has been a little
bit of ability for workers to to
exercise direct democracy in the
hospital
um because of some of the failures of
the nhs to manage what's going on at the
moment that happened in america as well
and that's happened in pakistan as well
from what we're talking about but james
what's your experience in the in the
hospitals
on the day today do you think that is
more democracy less democracy
so my experience of going in on a
day-to-day basis is that we get i can't
remember the name for it but we go in
each morning and we get an email which
tells us the situation in the hospital
kind of how we need to
uh
behave interact
what are the
policies that we need to adhere to
um and things like that so in that sense
a lot of that
yeah yeah so we get uh an email which is
from the chief executive each day which
tells us what to do um
and that um
and i think um
within this situation
um
because it's been a new situation that
we've not really gone through i think
really
things so so we have a um consultant
nurse who runs our
immediate department
and um and so we get these hand downs of
what we've got to do and then something
will come along one week and she will
walk in and tell us to you know and also
when you're giving directions so i
remember doing this when i was at
dartington of like writing instructions
for kind of doing performance kind of
things and you would give them to people
and you would think that you were being
really clear
about what you were doing and then you
would give it to somebody and a lot of
my things were about knitting and things
like that and i kind of say
ten rows of ten stitches and do they and
and i remember doing one on a trip to
glasgow and i ended up with this huge
long misshaped piece of fantastical
knitting and and that's kind of what's
happening in the hospital as well i mean
you just tell people how to use ppe
and then all of a sudden you know i mean
how many we see it just in in general
public as well people walking around
with like masks and they're kind of
putting math on and how many times have
we been told that if you touch the front
of your mask or you put it under
your chin and this about them about
reinfection you're seeing everybody
doing it and
and um
and so yes so you see um
so you see people interpreting ideas
differently
um but um
i guess
um
yeah on in the hospital i guess it just
feels
more controlled but because it's a new
more controlled but i guess
because
the directions and the way to behave or
you know you just do things
intrinsically sometimes it's really hard
sometimes working within pp guidelines
you have to constantly recheck yourself
to kind of make sure that you're working
in them because
because
how long have we never had to hug
somebody for or
you know or you know a lot of what i do
with working with patients is helping
people with a
procedure which
essentially you're putting a a
cannula but
into the
to
close to the heart and so you explain
this full procedure and people freak out
well a lot of my job
when when we're not in covered is
holding people's hands
and
kind of giving them physical touch to
calm them down and and do all of this
and in ppe you
you're removed from all that so it's
like how do you how do you give that
closeness and that care to people when
they're freaking out
you know you come at them essentially
looking like that scene from e.t where
they
when they're all in ppe
i mean that's why we can't do therapy
because the kids will just freak out if
they see us in the you know it's just
better if they don't they will just
freak them out we can't do the
assessments and stuff yeah
probably in
in hospital care they are having to be
more stringent and that's why they're
having these problems where they're
actually
having sort of black and brown people
being pushed to the front line and
they're having to do what they're told
in in our service we are able to
think more
creatively
because it's a different service it's
therapy it's it's like you know it's a
bit different and we are having like
it's weird times more people are killing
that more kids are killing themselves at
the moment so we're having and we're not
getting any support other than our team
so we're having more meetings to talk
about well how do we deal with this
so i think it does vary on the service
and in in services where you have to
still see people you can't say to people
okay well
you know we're not we're going to shut
this service down yes you can but there
are some services that have to keep
going i i think that they're
finding it's more kind of controlled and
stringent
than yeah
but i also wanted to say that if you
compare hospital to schools the hospital
apparently you need to have lots of
rules because it's a very complex
technological procedure you know if you
have an operation or things like that
the consequences are bigger and things
go wrong
but at the same time the question is not
having rules for not having the rules
but can the rules be
you know discuss for example uh the the
the rules about how to have this
protection uh how do they make who make
them who can object to them uh can you
like you know give back your advice so
that's all the problems that is actually
interesting to discuss in the in the
framework of the house whole institution
is built in
yeah
as far as i'm aware we get our we the
even the chief executive is getting
their direction from government
guidelines
and then that's passed down to us and
um
and i think one of the interesting
things that maybe has changed things is
maybe the amount of money that the
government has been able to put towards
ppe
and that has changed about the way that
ppe has been used about whether ppe has
been reused or can be reused
and things like that or you know at
first we were using visors you know the
plastic visors and at first we were told
that they were one use only
and then it was that we could clean them
down with certain whites and we could
reuse certain things uh i think when
that first happened that freaked people
out because they were like right what
can we reuse and what part we use
and again it's the way that people
interpret it so you know there was so
there was a really
a few weeks ago there was a thing before
we had to start wearing hospital in
maths in the hospital or on a normal on
a non-clinical situation so um
we started having to wear masks when we
were on a ward
or when we were in a clinic with the
patient but then we were walking down
corridors and doing things we didn't
have to wear mats but then there were
times that you were
transferring a patient from a clinical
setting to a
to a from from a clinic to x-ray so
essentially you're still working with
the
patient and you're taking them down to a
corridor and you're kind of like well
why when i'm walking down the corridor
with the patient do the other people
that are in the corridor not have to
wear a mask because all of a sudden
we're all in the same place with patient
so it becomes so
it gets really yeah it's um like a vine
growing the way that it wants to
it's scrambling
it's so it's a renegotiation of public
and private space in it and it's
constantly happening i think i think
that was interesting from what you're
saying is that you've got a consultant
nurse on the ward which sounds like the
consultant nurse is probably going to
different
wards right you've got the chief
executive but in our session in our
setting yes so
most so i guess
our
so most words you would have a ward
manager who is a sister who looks after
the day-to-day running of the ward and
in our case we've got lead nurses but
we've got lead nurses in small
departments but then we have a
consultant nurse who
ours is a very specialist area so
the service we perform isn't performed
all over the country and we're kind of
um
a bit
the the organ the department that i'm in
is kind of
a unique department in in the uk so
other people come to us to look to see
what they're doing so our lead nurse is
kind of
consultant nurse is kind of
she leads everything to the service so
yeah ultimately she wants to come in you
know i guess it's like a head surgeon
who colorectal surgeon that works on the
colorectal ward if they wanted to come
in and something be done a certain way
then i guess they could have
very interesting so but i think we
should
we have to go now so but i think we
already started to work on the
on this uh yeah like um
groups i just wanted to to quickly say
what i wrote up to you so
it's it's one of the things is a very
very idea of democratization of hospital
is uh
is actually pretty new and it's only the
references is only some kind of
revolutionary uh half militant half
artistic groups and so uh i was thinking
maybe in a working group we can discuss
some concrete example
and um like you were saying about ppe
how like you know it's very cl it's a
very small things but it's very clear if
the system will be able to have a
feedback
of what actually
going with the rules that they are you
know making you implement then it will
readjust itself better so and everybody
would see that it's actually really
necessary to do and then migration and
hospital that was i was saying in that
was people from grass was saying too
that's like a very big deal because most
of the
many of the care workers are
migrants
um
yeah and then i would just maybe write
privately to fabian and do my own
research about um
board games because i'm so fascinated
about that it's kind of cool yeah that's
so cool maybe we should do like you know
parallel project with the board games so
we'll have a person
yeah i welcome that that would be good
okay
communist hospital the game yeah
they gave
but i do regularly refer to the hospital
as being a game of tetris because it's
about people coming in and then
working very rapidly
and things so
every the one thing that i was thinking
today that you were talking about most
of it
i kept thinking it's like playing a game
it's like playing board
oh
yeah
okay so you guys see two weeks old
well we're setting out we're sitting
around the the working group stuff okay
cool
thank you
brilliant nice one thanks guys all right
you're really fun with your discussions